CLIENT-SPECIFICATION (2.0): document removal of master branch, addition of support for individual translation archives (#10148)
tldr-pages/tldr: CLIENT-SPECIFICATION.md

# tldr-pages client specification

**Current Specification Version:** 2.0

> This document contains the official specification for tldr-pages clients. It is _not_ a specification of the format of the pages themselves - only a specification of how a user should be able to interface with an official client. For the list of previous versions of this specification, see the [changelog section](#Changelog) below.

Reviewer: IMO there's not much benefit to this change. Both versions strike me as correct, and I do have a slight preference for the first one. If you don't feel strongly about this change, my recommendation would be to revert it.

Author: ```suggestion
This document contains the official specification for tldr-pages clients. It is _not_ a specification of the format of the pages themselves - only a specification of how a user should be able to interface with an official client. For a list of previous versions of the specification, see the [changelog section](#Changelog) below.
```

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

## Terminology

> Several terms will be defined in this section to aid the understanding of this specification document.

Reviewer: How about this?

```suggestion
This section defines key terms that are relevant for understanding this specification document.
```

### Arguments

> Several command-line options MUST be supported (unless otherwise specified) if a CLI is implemented:

Reviewer: Let's make this explicit:

```suggestion
The following command-line options MUST be supported (unless otherwise specified) if a CLI is implemented:
```

Option             | Required?   | Meaning
-------------------|-------------|----------
`-v`, `--version`  | Yes         | Shows the current version of the client, and the version of this specification that it implements.
`-p`, `--platform` | Yes         | Specifies the platform to be used to perform the action (either listing or searching) as an argument. If this option is specified, the selected platform MUST be checked first instead of the current platform as described below.

> `-u`, `--update`   | Conditional | Updates the offline cache of pages. MUST be implemented if the cache is supported.

Reviewer: Here if either go with "if a cache is supported" or "of caching is supported".

Author: ```suggestion
`-u`, `--update`   | Conditional | Updates the offline cache of pages. MUST be implemented if caching is supported.
```

`-l`, `--list`     | No          | Lists all the pages in the current platform to the standard output.
`-L`, `--language` | No          | Specifies the preferred language for the page returned. Overrides other language detection mechanisms. See the [language section](#language) for more information.

Clients MUST implement both the short and long versions of an option.

> Additional decoration MAY be printed if the standard output is a [TTY](http://www.linusakesson.net/programming/tty/index.php). If not, then the output MUST not contain any additional decorations. For example, a page list MUST be formatted with a 1-page name per line (to enable easy manipulation using standard CLI tools such as `grep` etc.).

Reviewer: I agree with the comma, but "1-page name" is incorrect, as it implies a name that occupies one page (whatever that would be 😅). What we want to say here is to have "one page-name" (abusing the hyphen to make my point across). Here's what I'd suggest:

```suggestion
Additional decoration MAY be printed if the standard output is a [TTY](http://www.linusakesson.net/programming/tty/index.php). If not, then the output MUST not contain any additional decorations. For example, a page list MUST be formatted with one page name per line (to enable easy manipulation using standard CLI tools such as `grep` etc.).
```

## Page structure

> Although this specification is about the interface that clients must provide, it is also worth noting that pages are written in the standard [CommonMark](https://commonmark.org/), which the exception of the non-standard `{{` and `}}` syntax, which surrounds values in an example that users may edit. Clients MUST NOT break if the page format is changed within the _CommonMark_ specification.

Author: ```suggestion
Although this specification is about the interface that clients must provide, it is also worth noting that pages are written in standard [CommonMark](https://commonmark.org/), which the exception of the non-standard `{{` and `}}` syntax, which surrounds values in an example that users may edit. Clients MUST NOT break if the page format is changed within the _CommonMark_ specification.
```

#### If a page is not found

> If a page cannot be found in _any_ platform, then it is RECOMMENDED that clients display an error message with a link to create a new issue against the `tldr-pages/tldr` GitHub repository. The said link might take the following form:

Reviewer: The previous form is correct and AFAIK more common. If the form doesn't appeal to you, perhaps something different like "Such a link" would be preferable? (For the record, I'm fine with the existing wording.)

Author: ```suggestion
If a page cannot be found in _any_ platform, then it is RECOMMENDED that clients display an error message with a link to create a new issue against the `tldr-pages/tldr` GitHub repository. Said link might take the following form:
```

## Language

Pages can be written in multiple languages. If a client has access to environment variables, it MUST use them to derive the preferred user language as described in the next paragraphs. If not, then clients MUST make reasonable assumptions based on the information provided by the environment in which they operate (e.g. consulting `navigator.languages` in a browser, etc.).

> The [`LANG` environment variable](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Locale-Environment-Variables.html) specifies the user-preferred locale (in the form `ll[_CC][.encoding]`). The [`LANGUAGE` environment variable](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/The-LANGUAGE-variable.html) specifies a priority list of locales (in the form `l1:l2:...`) that can be used if the locale defined by `LANG` is not available. Both `LANG` and `LANGUAGE` may contain the values `C` or `POSIX`, which should be ignored.

Reviewer: Why not apply the same change as you did below? Even if just for consistency.

```suggestion
The [`LANG` environment variable](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Locale-Environment-Variables.html) specifies the user's preferred locale (in the form `ll[_CC][.encoding]`). The [`LANGUAGE` environment variable](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/The-LANGUAGE-variable.html) specifies a priority list of locales (in the form `l1:l2:...`) that can be used if the locale defined by `LANG` is not available. Both `LANG` and `LANGUAGE` may contain the values `C` or `POSIX`, which should be ignored.
```

 - [v1.3, June 11th 2020](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/v1.3/CLIENT-SPECIFICATION.md) ([#4101](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pull/4101))
   - Clarified fallback to English in the language resolution algorithm.
   - Update the `LANG` and `LANGUAGE` environment variables to conform to the GNU spec.

 - [v1.2, July 3rd 2019](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/v1.2/CLIENT-SPECIFICATION.md) ([#3168](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/pull/3168))
   - Addition of a new `-L, --language` recommended command-line option.

>    - Rewording of the language section also encourages the use of configuration files for language.

Reviewer: I don't think this matches the original intent of the sentence. Maybe a comma helps here?

```suggestion
   - Rewording of the language section, also encouraging the use of configuration files for language.
```
